	For this school year 2018-2019, it was in my 2nd term, I have this subject called Troubleshooting of Computer System. 
Our first instructor in this subject is Mr Ralph Vincent Galao. We had few reporting in his time due to he resigned in BISU. 
Until we found out that Mr Max Angelo Perin is our new instructor. He was familiar on us because he was our senior during our lower years in college.
In our first meeting, he introduced himself and discussed the topics involved in this subject. We do reporting and he examined us based on what we reported. 
During his time, he is not only our instructor but our source of knowledge in other subjects. He gave us the information we need every time we approached on him.
For that, we are thankful for having him. He is always there ready to listen our queries, who understand our struggles, advices as what to do and to survive in
our course no matter what.
	As what troubleshooting means it is a systematic approach to problem solving that is often used to find and correct issues with complex machines, electronics,
computers and software systems. The first step in troubleshooting is gathering information on the issue, such as an undesired behaviour or a lack of expected
functionality. Other important information includes related symptoms and special circumstances that may be required to reproduce the issue. Once the issue and 
how to reproduce it are understood, the next step might be to eliminate unnecessary components in the system and verify that the issue persists, to rule out 
incompatibility and third-party causes. Once the problem part is identified, it may be adjusted, repaired or replaced as needed. Evidence of effective
troubleshooting is indicated when the issue is no longer reproducible and function is restored one. The success of troubleshooting often depends on the 
thoroughness and experience of the trouble shooter.
	In order to solve a problem, you must figure out which part of the system is malfunctioning. You will need to check each component of the computer, unless 
it is obvious where the problem is coming from. The following are the basic steps in troubleshooting: close open programs and windows you are not currently
using, make sure all of your cords are connected properly, try to repeat the sequence of commands you performed before the problem occurred, press F1 key to 
access the Help Window, If there is an error message record the full message for future reference, restart your computer to see if it clears the problem, 
to restart your computer open the start window and select the restart button instead of the log off button, if restarting the computer does not clear the problem,
shutdown the computer and then start it back up again, if the issue is still not resolved, check the common technology issues below or call your system administrator.
	Here are the solutions for common technology issues I learned in this subject. When the printer is not working, check if the printer is turned on, If not, 
turn it on and try again. Check if the printer has paper, if not, put paper in the paper tray and try printing again. Check if the printer has a paper jam, if so,
remove the paper, close the printer and try printing again. Ensure that all printer cables are properly connected. Turn off the printer and turn on again. 
Check to see if a new printer driver is needed. Do this by going to the manufacture’s website to search for your printer model and checking for any updated driver.
Seek assistance from your system administrator before installing any driver’s. Other issue is the computer is frozen or a program is not responding. First, push the 
CTRL, ALT and delete keys at the same time. Then, start the Task Manager, highlight the program’s name, and hit the End Task Button. Perform a hard reboot by simply
pressing the on/off button to turn off the computer manually. This action should only be done as a last resort if you have an unresponsive program or critical error. 
This process could cause data loss or corruption. Once the computer is responding again, run a virus check. Other issue is when the keyboard is not working. Make sure
the keyboard is connected to the computer. If not, connect it to the computer. If you are using a wireless keyboard, try changing the batteries. If one of the keys on 
your keyboard gets stuck, turn the computer off and clean with a damp cloth. Use the mouse to restart the computer. When the mouse is not working properly check if it
is securely plugged into the computer. If not, plug it in completely. Check to see if the chord has been damaged. If so, the mouse may need replacement. If you are 
using a cordless mouse, try pushing the connection button on the underside of the mouse to re-establish a connection. Clean the mouse, especially on the bottom. When 
troubleshooting power supply, check the motherboard light; this eliminates the chance of the problem being cause by misplaced front panel headers. Check also the input 
voltage selector. If the light on the motherboard is not lit, make sure the PSU Is connected to the motherboard, this includes the 24 and the 4 pin cables. After that,
check to see if the PSU has a source of power. Check to see if it is plugged into a cord. If the computer still does not power on, substitute the cord for a known good 
one and try again. If it fails to boot again, consider replacing the PSU. When troubleshooting computer speaker, understand how your speaker system works: sound signals
generated inside your computer are sent to the speaker port. Know what’s likely to fail: reason why there is no sound. Make sure that your laptop is plugged. Check your
speaker’s or computer’s volume. Make sure that you don’t have headphones connected. Turn off the computer’s Bluetooth. Try testing your audio with headphones. Check your 
speaker’s connections. Restart your computer. If none of the following software tweaks work for your speaker’s, you’ll need to take your speakers/computer into a technician
repair department and ask for assistance. Troubleshooting and Maintenance of Motherboad: If the motherboard is not working properly, the problem is often caused by a 
component that is no functioning properly. One should remove a component not required for basic operation and then start the computer to see if the problem still exists.
Repeat this with different components until you find the one that is causing the error. If no components are found to be faulty, the computer may have a loss of power or
a virus. Always check the documentation that is included with your system board to determine the proper settings. To prevent the computer from overheating, verify that 
the fan is working properly. Many motherboards have built-in thermometers that will shut down the computer before it overheats. To clean your motherboard, you can use a 
can of compressed air to blow away the dust. With the help of our reports, we got familiarized some computer system terms and it’s definition. Those are the knowledge I
gained in this subject.  I can say that those theories I learned will serve as a good foundation to become a successful Computer Engineer someday.

